# Image Segmentation in Medical Radiology: A State of the Art Review

Author: Gusev Roman

## Article Summary

With modern day technologies and advancements, Radiology became more sophisticated in technological aspect - MRIs, Rontgen and CTs evolved significantly and output images generated by them, has grown in number and resolution. Radiologists work, that deal with them on a daily basis, requires manual thorough analysis of each of them, becoming time-consuming and, overall, a routine work. Image Segmentation can help with identification of anomalies in human body in radiologic images by segmentation using ML/DL models, and reduce the time required to process images. Research paper reviews the state-of-the-art of Machine Learning and Radiology, focusing the attention on proposed solutions that involves advanced Deep Learning models, such as Convolutional Neural Networks and, less sophisticated Distance-based models, for example, K-Means Clustering, for the task of Image Segmentation. Provided code focuses on dataset preprocessing, since main research paper focus is on the state-of-the-art.

## Getting Started

In order to work with this python file, Python 3.13.4 is recommended. To get started, do the following:

1. **Prepare Your Environment**: Create Virtual Environment for Python or use existing:

    ```sh
    python -m venv myenv
    source myenv/bin/activate      # On Windows: .\myenv\Scripts\activate
    ```

2. **Install Requirements**: Install required packages from `requirements.txt` file using next command:

   ```sh
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. **Execute Python File in the preferred IDE**: Execute `main.ipynb` file in the preferred IDE to see the example in action.
    ```sh
    python -u "<path/to/file>"
    ```

## Source Code Explanation

The code in this folder provides basic example of Image Dataset Preprocessing before training an DL Model. Key components are described below:

- `src/main.py`: This file contains the example provided for the article (Dataset Preprocessing Step). It takes raw input radiologic images and applies preprocessing steps - RGB-LAB Conversion, CLA Histogram Equalization, Gaussian Filtering, Resize, trasnforming them into clean input data for the ML/DL algorithms.

- `src/data/`: This folder contains the images used to demonstrate the input dataset in a Brain Tumor Segmentation Problem. `mask/` folder contains ground-truth binary mask.

## Author
This article was written by Gusev Roman in LaTeX.